a huge obstacle to getting humanitarian
Aid into Gaza are the Border checks
Israel insists on making before trucks
are allowed to enter let's take you
through the process you see supplies
arrive in Cairo on cargo ships at Port s
or by plane at Alish airport well eight
trucks due to enter Gaza are checked by
Israeli authorities at nitana but they
then have to cross back into Egypt where
they head to the rafah
crossing the last time any truck was
allowed to pass through rafah was
February the 4th or they go to the
Israeli controlled Kum Abu salum
Crossing for inspection and enter there
now before the War Began around 500
trucks a day crossed into Gaza through
Karam Abu salum almost none are getting
through
now let's speak now to Abdul wahab
hammed he's the Gaza office manager at
Jud for community and rural development
a local NGO joins us on the phone from
Rafa good to have you with us let me
start with a basic obvious first
question is any Aid getting into Gaza
right
now thank you thank you very much for
bringing me in Sammy actually the there
there has been a deliberate delay of a
humanitarian Aid at trucks by Israel
especially during the the past few days
that Shalom Crossing where the aid is
received by the unan site and a
Consortium led by un and run in
partnership with other unan agencies and
international NOS now this is the denial
of access to food water and basic
necessities this by itself constitutes a
serious violation of international law
and humanitarian principles now during
the past few weeks the aid coming into
Gaza is or getting the throw into Gaza
is very limited we speak roughly of 80
to 100 we used to speak about an 80 to
100 trucks of AG
received on a daily basis now during the
P few days no Aid is is getting this
world into Gaza uh this makes the the
already this undermines the already
vulnerable conditions of Palestinians
now in in ra you know in the midet of
the last remaining sanctuary in in Gaza
ra which is a very small stb on the
Egyptian border and which shelters over
a million and a half displaced
Palestinians now our our BL here is UN
imagable with some residing in tents and
others seeking refuge in makeshift
shelters these displaced individuals
have endured these dire conditions for
months now RAF also as you know lacks
major hospitals only relying on
extremely small clinics primarily for
basic medical assistance and occasional
referrals for the treatment now the
Israeli threat also to enter ra would
have severe consequences and and it will
be a plattin violation of international
humanitarian law current
stands as the largest refugee camp on
Earth and any Israeli military action
also here would be legally reprehensible
now the situation is further Complicated
by conflicting Israeli statements hting
at ethnic cleansing against Palestinians
actually they have said it explicitly
many many many times urging Palestinians
to evacuate some have already uh by the
way some Palestinians have already
returned to homes in Central in central
Gaza While others just remain in ra
andure of safe
Heaven okay let me jump in because
you've mentioned a few important points
one I want to pick up on is you said if
I've understood correctly you said no
Aid has entered Gaza for the past few
days is that in fact the situation no
Aid at all has entered Gaza I mean how
are people how long can people go on for
before food runs
out well actually I I think it's
imperative for international
organization and those who are engaged
in relief processes to tell civilians
shuring Gaza about their limitations so
people plan their life according to the
limitations of those engaged in the
relief processes this is so so important
you know people now in the north they
eat animal food the first statement made
by Israel Before the War Began was how
to food to water and to fuel their
animals and we should behave ACC
condently this is happening right now
alas this is happening in the north okay
in the South we still can like we have
very limited access to food but at least
we we we can have in the north they
don't okay they're starving to death uh
we have very limited access I mean Safe
Drinking Water we speak roughly of 1 to
two liters per person b day with with 5%
coming from the central by with with the
rest being in water tanks it is
disheartening and it is troubling to
witness this much of negotiations over
humanitarian guarantees and increased
access to Aid in exchange for the leas
of hostages this would potentially
delute the urgency to put an in to the
suffering in Kasa it is a tring to
witness the International Community fter
in such a great crisis this must end
this madness the surv for killing this
killing for killing must stop you
mentioned if I jump in again you
mentioned that some people have left
Rafa assumedly out of fear of a of a
ground Israeli ground Invasion where do
they go what is awaiting them because
the North and Central parts of Gaza
according to reports have been destroyed
even more heavily than the South yes it
is disheartening because civilians now
they started to allocate themselves
where it's safer not now the the the the
the illusion of safe designated area has
has just been shattered because because
people have been into unrelenting cycle
of displacement and loss for the past
four
months Ra was declared it's the military
claims to be a safe Zone a couple of
weeks ago now they pump everywhere okay
even
during the past five days like we had
Relentless bombardments all across ra
which is the military claims to be a
safe zone so now this Shadow the
illusion of self designated area
civilian now they live in constant fear
and panic particularly women and
children uh they have nowhere to go uh
and and it's good to bring up this now
the conflict has reshaped the physical
realities of Gaza the physical landscape
and it has gone so far destabilizing
gaza's geotechnic Foundation now the
destruction of Gaza geotechnic
foundation will be hindering life
impossible for 2.3 million Palestinians
living in the St they've been they've
been hitting really deep in the ground
50 70 60 M now this is like it is
distinguishing any resemblance of life
for the people of Gaza causing its
citizens to evacuate but Noah safe in
Gaza even if they evacuate back words
saying to to to the middle of Gaza and
to to to to to to to other areas you
know 65% of hospitals of the operating
hospitals stopped to operate already
they've been they've been running very
low of efficienc of efficiency due to
either being bombed partially destroyed
or completely damaged so even if yes all
right thank you so much for uh conveying
to us the picture there of what is
transpiring yes thank you thank you